Adds documentation for PR rules of thumb (#1499)
microsoft/fhir-server: docs/CodeReviewRulesOfThumb.md

# Rules of Thumb for Code Reviews

This document aims to outline a set of best practices that are followed, within reason, when reviewing PRs.

## Select a reviewer

Author:

> - Manually assign at least one reviewer when creating a PR

Reviewer: Does this apply to external contributors?

Author: Thanks for pointing this out - didn't think of that. I considered both audiences (the FHIR team and external contributors) in d690eb1.

> - Let the reviewer know that you have selected them during scrum (or ping them over Teams)

Reviewer: Again, keep external audience in mind

Author: Fixed in d690eb1.

Reviewer:

> - Indicate right away if you are the wrong reviewer (you won't be able to review the PR if you are going on vacation, for example)

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on rephrasing slightly?

```suggestion
- Indicate right away if you won't be able to or don't feel comfortable to sign-off as the reviewer (i.e. you won't be able to review the PR because you are going on vacation)
```

Author: +1 good idea. Fixed in 47d06c7.

|Instead of This|Try This|Reasoning|
|---|---|---|
|“This method is too long”|“This method is quite long, maybe you could extract this part as a sub method”|Provide a suggestion|
|“I don't understand this”|“It's hard to understand this because I don't see why we need to use a dictionary here instead of a list”|Ask specific questions|
|“This method should be async”|“This method should be async, otherwise it could cause deadlocks”|Explain why|
|“Hey, you should remove this line”|“Marking this as a must-fix before merging because this line will break the server/client connection.”|Prioritize your comments|
|“Maybe try a different name for this variable”|“It would be good to rename this to something like `CurrencyValueSet` to avoid the name `SystemValues`, since the `ValueSet` uri is "http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/currencies" and the `CodeSystem` is "urn:iso:std:iso:4217" ([here](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/valueset-currencies.html) is the relevant part of the spec).”|Help suggest a new name if you think a variable could be renamed|

## Ask questions to gain understanding

- Not all comments are actionable
- Preface non-actionable comments with "for my understanding"

> - It's important to continue to ask these questions

Reviewer 3: nit: 'these' seems without context here or maybe it is just me. Not sure if this looks good - 'It's important to continue ask clarifying questions'

Author: Good point, thanks! Fixed in d690eb1.

## Practice healthy communication

|Instead of This|Try This|Reasoning|
|---|---|---|
|"You forgot to add method comment"|"This method is missing a comment"|Avoid words like "mine and "yours"|

> |“You should use a constant”|"Here it seems we need a constant because..."|Use the word "we"|

Reviewer: Nit: the quote styles are not consistent across the doc (`“”` vs `""`)

Reviewer: I added this comment before reading the actual line and I *almost* wrote "you..." 😄 Whew!

Author: Ah the different quote styles must have come from copy-pasting from PowerPoint. Thanks for catching it. Fixed in d690eb1.

|"Rename to user_id"|"What do you think of renaming to user_id?"|If fitting, ask questions instead of making demands|

## Be humble and assume the best of the author

- Ask questions before categorizing something as an error

> ## Move long PR discussions to video calls

Reviewer 4: This would also be something that might not be practical for external contributors.

Author: Ah yes valid point. I updated the doc to indicate that this guidance is relevant to FHIR team members only in d690eb1.

- Be open to moving discussions to chat or video calls for clarification
- Post a resolution comment so other people reading the PR know what happened

## Positive reinforcement is important!

- If you think it is appropriate and would like to add an emoji, the team has expressed that we like them 🙂

## Additional notes

> - Consider using [Code Flow](https://www.1eswiki.com/wiki/CodeFlow_integration_with_GitHub_Pull_Requests), a tool that integrates with Github to provide a helpful UI for code reviewing

Reviewer: This is an internal tool, so I wouldn't include it here. 
(We could point to the GitHub VS Code [extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github), which I like to use)

Author: Oops didn't realize that it was internal. Fixed in d690eb1.

- If the same issue occurs in multiple places in one file, add one comment that mentions that this occurs more than once (reconsider for multiple files)

> - It is nice to proceed nitpick comments with “nit”

Reviewer 4: >proceed [](start = 16, length = 7)

nit: typo, I think this should be precede?

Author: I think I have been using "proceed" instead of "precede" my entire life, oops 😅. Thanks! Fixed in d690eb1.

|“Maybe try a different name for this variable”|“It would be good to rename this to something like `CurrencyValueSet` to avoid the name `SystemValues`, since the `ValueSet` uri is “http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/currencies” and the `CodeSystem` is “urn:iso:std:iso:4217” ([here](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/valueset-currencies.html) is the relevant part of the spec).”|Help suggest a new name if you think a variable could be renamed|

## Ask questions to gain understanding

- Not all comments are actionable
- Preface non-actionable comments with “for my understanding”
- It's important to continue to ask clarifying questions

## Practice healthy communication

|Instead of This|Try This|Reasoning|
|---|---|---|
|“You forgot to add method comment”|“This method is missing a comment”|Avoid words like “mine” and “yours”|
|“You should use a constant”|“Here it seems we need a constant because...”|Use the word “we”|
|“Rename to user_id”|“What do you think of renaming to user_id?”|If fitting, ask questions instead of making demands|

## Be humble and assume the best of the author

- Ask questions before categorizing something as an error

## Move long PR discussions to video calls

> - Authors who are members of the FHIR team should be open to moving discussions to chat or video calls for clarification

Reviewer 3: nit: I like the idea of creating different sections [here](https://github.com/microsoft/fhir-server/blob/47d06c7821b216df43e8f88035600baad44bb679/docs/CodeReviewRulesOfThumb.md#select-a-reviewer).
Probably we can create sections here as well in the similar way and mention 'NA' for External contributor Authors?

Author: I like the idea of adding more consistency! I don't know what the best recommendation would be for external contributors in this scenario. One idea:

```
External contributor authors:

- The FHIR team will reach out to you if we believe it would be helpful to move discussions to a different platform
```

I will suggest this during parking lot today to see what the team thinks.

Author: Fixed in c83108d.
